---
title: 'Icarus in Moonlight'
date: 2022-05-20
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - poem
  - pride
  - Anchor
---

This is a narrative free verse poem I wrote in 2022 that won first place at the Pride and Prose contest held during UnmasQue by [Anchor BITS Pilani](https://www.instagram.com/p/CeHKyO1vtt7/?img_index=1).

The wind was howling, and the fire was screaming<br>
Way down in the bowels of this town.<br>
The dark Man left, but he left behind<br>
A mother and a child both stunted and lost.<br>  
One streaked with scars of belted pain and<br>
Fear of the beast in the night<br>
And the other, an Isaac forsaken by his Abraham<br>
Wishing he was instead sacrificed.<br>

And there was another Woman, she rode a<br>
Phantom black horse and came<br>
Blazing in the white heat of the sun<br>
With demons of her own, and found gentle moonlight<br>
In the mother and the boy.<br>
The Man’s beast had crippled and warped<br>
Their souls, but her demons held them<br>
In the valley of her unlit heart,<br>
Asking for retribution, instead of inflicting.<br>
And she said to the Mother,<br>
I’ll help you raise your boy, and give<br> 
you bread and a roof, just for a chance,<br>
To stand in the shadows, and look over you.<br>

And the three built a makeshift world<br>
For each other, giving when they were<br>
too shy to ask, for a hand to hold.<br>
The restless Woman, so used to riding away <br>
on burning tires, and wings on fire,<br>
Was tamed by the love of the <br>
Mother and the boy,<br>
And like a sinner before the altar of Christ<br>
She swore to come crawling back,<br>
Back to them, and she wasn’t the Man with<br>
Hell up his sleeve, because she always did.<br>



The kid grew, and the memory of the Man<br>
With a gun in his eye, and evil in the caves<br>
Of his heart, blurred away, as they so do <br>
In the young minds of child-like simplicity.<br>
He only knew, of his Mother,<br>
Her gentle strength and love,<br>
And her Friend, who flew like a bat<br>
Raptured from the inferno, who was his shield.<br>
Both pure and good and right,<br>
Fallen angels wronged by God.<br>

The night was over, and at the crack of dawn,<br>
The Boy became a righteous Man, and left<br>
To make a family of his own, as is the way<br>
Of humanity. <br>
The Mother, wrought in sadness from <br>
The farewell, mustered selfless felicity,<br>
As only a Mother could.<br>
The Woman, learnt the loss of <br>
A child not her own, held the other <br>
to share her grief.<br>

In shining tears from a heart <br>
afraid of breaking, The Mother cried to <br>
the Woman of the night,<br>
You need not stay, for I have learnt to<br>
Fend for myself, and I shall not keep you<br>
From flying away on your Phantom wings, <br>
To the ends of the flaming sun, like Icarus<br>
as is your prodigal heart’s nature. <br>

The Woman, her dark eyes shining, <br>
With glimmering love so bright, told her <br>
Companion of long,<br>
I know that I’ll be damned<br>
If I don’t leave,<br>
But I’ll be damned if I do, and your Love <br>
Is the bruising sun I wish <br>
to chase, and be worthy of, <br>
And to give myself in serenade, because<br>
I’d rather be damned with you.<br>

The nights have been too lonely, <br>
And the road has been too long, <br>
But we raised a precious love <br>
in this evil town.<br>
And I’ll spar all the killers,<br>
In the bloodshot moonlight, and I will do so,<br>
again, just for another moment, <br>
Another moment,<br>
To dance in this sinful night with you.