---
title: 'The Wickedness Within'
date: 2025-01-05
permalink: /posts/2013/08/blog-post-2/
tags:
  - essay
  - Wicked
  - Musical
---

Nothing has evinced a more visceral tug of war between identity and conformity than the *Defying Gravity* piece in the musical, *Wicked*. The wickedness that resides in Elphaba and Glinda are, perhaps, parts of us we often recognize yet more often, rather curiously, loath to acknowledge.

Glinda’s selfishness to protect her own cause, even at the expense of disparaging others is blatantly laid out throughout the film in pretty songs and exaggerated coquettish gesticulations. She is a placeholder most people in the theatre seats can conveniently constrain to the outlines of a bully- perhaps a bully they’ve had to endure at school, at home or the workplace. It is most straightforward, and even gratifying, to view Glinda as the *Other*, an alien shrouded in pink and huge puffs of powder and blush. <br>
In contrast, the wickedness that lies in Elphaba is somewhat of an undercurrent. It has the likeness of an elusive predator that lies in wait just underneath the surface. It is not the conventional wickedness the musical purports- the greenness of her skin, or of mannerisms, of social awkwardness, offhanded honesty or anything else that Elphaba is persecuted for in the musical. <br> It is the side of Elphaba that goes unnoticed, in part maybe, because most of the viewers fail to recognise a similar wickedness within themselves. Elphaba’s wickedness is revealed in her indignance at Glinda’s subservience and Glinda’s need to conform to society and to feel loved and accepted by family and friends. It is present in the unyielding unjustness of her plea to Glinda to forsake everything she has ever known, to embrace the life of an outcast in the pursuit of a “higher” moral and "just" ideal. 

In truth, Elphaba’s undoing is her own implicit conviction in her uniqueness, her quiet belief in her moral superiority. How curious it is that such a belief, though cloaked in the guise of nobility, bears the seeds of the very wickedness she would decry in others.

The boundless motifs we can take away from every scene of this musical do not stop here. 

The choice between authenticity and acceptance has been depicted with an artistic forbearance. The musical begins with slow primitive movements and culminates into a burning friction by the last  number and poses such a direct reflection of the complexities of the human condition each of us must endure, that it is physically difficult not to write of this following interpretation. 

Starting with the affrontance in the riled affecting notes of *“I hope you’re happy”*. The characters at this moment are separated from each other mentally and emotionally, an icy distance in values parts those who crave and desire, ultimately, the same thing. And lest it be lost on the viewers that Elphaba’s actions stem solely from advocacy of herself and others, it is explicitly shown to us during the OzDust Ball where Glinda sees through Elphaba’s heart-aching orchestration of self-love (or is it self-preservation?) against social norms and realizes the depth of her green friend's despair, her need to belong that is masked so well by her indignance.

Striving for individuality at the expense of losing oneself in the majority, is a painful practice that rings most true for young adults in this present day. It is an unresolved struggle that has existed since the beginning of man himself. I must take some liberties now, to touch upon a personal discordance within myself, and connect it to the two characters I’d seen on screen and with time, have come to see within myself. 

*(TBC.)*
